.TH otpclient 1 "26 June 2024" "otpclient-3.6.0" "Simple GTK+ software to generate OTPs (TOTP and HOTP)"
.SH NAME
\fBOTPClient \fP- Simple GTK+ software to generate OTPs (TOTP and HOTP)
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBotpclient\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]

.fam T
.fi
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
OTPClient is GTK+ software for two-factor authentication that supports both Time-based One-time Passwords (TOTP) and HMAC-Based One-Time Passwords (HOTP).
.PP
OTPClient have the following features:
.IP \(bu 3
Support both TOTP and HOTP.
.IP \(bu 3
Support setting custom digits (between 4 and 10 inclusive).
.IP \(bu 3
Support setting a custom period (between 10 and 120 seconds inclusive).
.IP \(bu 3
Support SHA1, SHA256 and SHA512 algorithms.
.IP \(bu 3
Support for Steam codes.
.IP \(bu 3
Import encrypted Authenticator Plus backup.
.IP \(bu 3
Import and export encrypted and/or plain andOTP backup.
.IP \(bu 3
Import and export plain FreeOTPPlus backup (key URI format only).
.IP \(bu 3
Import and export plain Aegis backup (plain json only).
.IP \(bu 3
Local database is encrypted using AES256-GCM.
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Key is derived using PBKDF2 with SHA512 and 100k iterations.
.IP \(bu 3
Decrypted file is never saved (and hopefully never swapped) to disk. While the app is running, the decrypted content resides in a "secure memory" buffer allocated by Gcrypt.
.SH OPTIONS
Help Options:
.RS
.TP
.B
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Show help options.
.TP
.B
\fB--help-all\fP
Show all help options.
.TP
.B
\fB--help-gapplication\fP
Show GApplication options.
.TP
.B
\fB--help-gtk\fP
Show GTK+ Options.
.RE
.PP
Application Options:
.RS
.TP
.B
\fB--display\fP=DISPLAY
X display to use.
.SH NOTES
For other information and tutorials, see:
.IP \(bu 3
https://github.com/paolostivanin/OTPClient/wiki
.SH AUTHOR
OTPClient was written by Paolo Stivanin.
.PP
This manual page was written by Francisco Vilmar Cardoso Ruviaro for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
