.TH OTPCLIENT-CLI 1 "April 2026" "otpclient-cli" "OTPClient Manual"
.SH NAME
otpclient-cli \- command-line interface for OTPClient
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B otpclient-cli
.B \-\-show
.RB [ \-d
.IR DB ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR ACCOUNT ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR ISSUER ]
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR FORMAT ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-list
.RB [ \-d
.IR DB ]
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR FORMAT ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-list-databases
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR FORMAT ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-list-types
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-import \-\-type
.I TYPE
.B \-\-file
.I PATH
.RB [ \-d
.IR DB ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-export \-\-type
.I TYPE
.RB [ \-\-output-dir
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR DB ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-export-settings
.RB [ \-\-file
.IR PATH ]
.br
.B otpclient-cli \-\-import-settings \-\-file
.I PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B otpclient-cli
is the command-line counterpart to the OTPClient GUI. It can show one-time
passwords, list the contents of a database, import or export tokens in any
of the supported formats, and back up or restore application settings.
The on-disk database format is identical to the one used by the GUI and is
encrypted with AES-256-GCM using an Argon2id-derived key.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Actions
Exactly one action must be supplied on each invocation.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-show
Show the OTP for one or more tokens. Requires
.B \-\-account
or
.BR \-\-issuer .
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List every token in the database (account, issuer, group).
.TP
.B \-\-list-databases
Print the list of known databases from the configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-list-types
Print the import/export type identifiers accepted by
.BR \-\-type .
.TP
.B \-\-import
Import tokens from a backup file. Requires
.B \-\-type
and
.BR \-\-file .
.TP
.B \-\-export
Export tokens to a backup file. Requires
.BR \-\-type .
.TP
.B \-\-export-settings
Print the application settings (GSettings) as JSON, or write them to the
file given via
.BR \-\-file .
.TP
.B \-\-import-settings
Restore application settings from the JSON file given via
.BR \-\-file .
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.SS Selection
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-database " " \fIDB\fR
Path to the database, or a database name as printed by
.BR \-\-list-databases .
When omitted, the default database from the configuration is used.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-account " " \fIACCOUNT\fR
Account label to match (used with
.BR \-\-show ).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-issuer " " \fIISSUER\fR
Issuer to match (used with
.BR \-\-show ).
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-match-exact
Match
.B \-\-account
and
.B \-\-issuer
with case-sensitive equality instead of the default case-insensitive
contains-style comparison.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-show-next
Also print the OTP that will become valid after the current period.
Has no effect for HOTP tokens.
.SS Input / output
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type " " \fITYPE\fR
Backup format identifier. Use
.B \-\-list-types
to see the accepted values.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Backup file to import or settings file to write/read.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Destination directory for
.BR \-\-export .
Defaults to the user's home directory. Not available in the Flatpak build.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Read the database decryption password from the first line of
.I PATH
instead of prompting on stdin. The file must be a regular file (not a
symlink) with mode
.B 0600
or stricter.
.TP
.BI \-\-output= FORMAT
Output format for
.BR \-\-show ", " \-\-list ", and " \-\-list-databases .
Accepted values:
.BR table " (default), " json " or " csv .
JSON output is a single document; CSV output starts with a header row.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List every account/issuer pair in the default database:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-list
.TP
Print the current OTP for an account, plus the next one:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-show \-a alice -n
.TP
Get the current OTP as a JSON object for scripting:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-show \-a alice \-\-output=json
.TP
Import an Aegis encrypted backup:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-import \-\-type aegis_enc \-\-file aegis.json
.TP
Export to a 2FAS plain backup in /tmp:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-export \-\-type twofas_plain \-o /tmp
.TP
Use a passphrase file (chmod 0600) instead of stdin:
.B otpclient-cli \-\-show \-a alice \-p ~/.config/otpclient/passphrase
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B otpclient-cli
exits with
.B 0
on success and a non-zero status on error (incorrect password, missing
file, malformed input, etc.). Specific error messages are written to
standard error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/otpclient/otpclient.cfg
Configuration file holding the default database path.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR otpclient (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/paolostivanin/OTPClient/issues
